---
layout: default
---

<script src="{{ site.baseurl }}/scripts/filter_table.js"></script>
<script src="{{ site.baseurl }}/scripts/jquery.tablesorter.js"></script>
<script src="{{ site.baseurl }}/scripts/masonry.pkgd.min.js"></script>

<script>
    $(function(){
      $("#myTable").tablesorter({ sortList: [[0,0]],
     		headerTemplate: '{content}{icon}' });
    });
</script>

<script>
$('.grid').masonry({
  // options
  itemSelector: '.grid-item',
	percentPosition: true,
	columnWidth: '.grid-sizer'
});
</script>

# Plot table columns

<input class="filter" id='myInput' onkeyup='filterTable()' type='text' placeholder="Filter...">

<table class="tablesorter" id="myTable">
	<thead>
		<tr id='tableHeader'>
			<th class="colname">Column name</th>
			<th class="colclass">Class</th>
			<th class="coldesc">Description</th>
			<th class="colunit">Units</th>
			<th class="colby">Generated by</th>
		</tr>
	</thead>
	<tbody id='tableBody'>
  <tr>
    <td>plot_id</td>
    <td>chr</td>
    <td>A standardised method of identifying plots. For example,
    the first plot in a set of plots installed in Angola (A), in
    Bicuar National Park (B), by John Godlee (G), would be referred
    to as ABG_1.</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>data entry</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>subplot_id</td>
    <td>chr</td>
    <td>If the plot is divided into multiple parcels, but not
    "nested", i.e. sampling effort is equal across all parcels, the
    identifier of those parces</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>tree_id</td>
    <td>chr</td>
    <td>The identifier for a tree within a plot, ideally a number
    increasing from 1 to the number of trees in a plot, but this is
    not strict</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>stem_id</td>
    <td>chr</td>
    <td>The identifier for a stem within a tree, ideally a number
    increasing from 1 to the number of stems in a tree, but this is
    not strict</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>tag_id</td>
    <td>chr</td>
    <td>The code of the tag attached to the tree or stem in the
    field. If tags were not used, leave this column blank</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>measurement_date</td>
    <td>chr</td>
    <td>The year the measurement was taken.</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>species_orig_binom</td>
    <td>chr</td>
    <td>The binomial name of the tree species</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>species_orig_local</td>
    <td>chr</td>
    <td>The local name of the tree species/morphospecies.</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>genus</td>
    <td>chr</td>
    <td>The genus of the tree</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>stemTableGen()</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>species</td>
    <td>chr</td>
    <td>The species epithet of the tree</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>stemTableGen()</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>confer</td>
    <td>chr</td>
    <td>If a species is identified only as cf. (e.g. Burkea cf.
    africana), then the species epithet goes here</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>stemTableGen()</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>subspecies</td>
    <td>chr</td>
    <td>If a species is identified with a subsp. (e.g. Burkea
    africana subsp. longifolia), then the subspecies epithet goes
    here</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>stemTableGen()</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>variety</td>
    <td>chr</td>
    <td>If a species is identified with a variety (e.g. Burkea
    african var. thornii), then the variety epithet goes here</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>stemTableGen()</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>notes_stem</td>
    <td>chr</td>
    <td>Miscellaneous notes related to the tree or stem</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>diam</td>
    <td>num</td>
    <td>Stem diameter measurement in cm</td>
    <td>cm</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>pom</td>
    <td>num</td>
    <td>The height at which diam was taken, in metres to one
    decimal place (nearest 10 cm)</td>
    <td>m</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>x_grid</td>
    <td>num</td>
    <td>The x coordinate of the stem within the plot if a grid
    method was used. in metres to nearest 10 cm</td>
    <td>m</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>y_grid</td>
    <td>num</td>
    <td>The y coordinate of the stem within the plot if a grid
    method was used. in metres to nearest 10 cm</td>
    <td>m</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>latitude</td>
    <td>num</td>
    <td>The latitude coordinate of the stem within the plot if a
    GPS method was used. WGS84 EPSG4326</td>
    <td>decimal degrees</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>longitude</td>
    <td>num</td>
    <td>The longitude coordinate of the stem within the plot if a
    GPS method was used. WGS84 EPSG4326</td>
    <td>decimal degrees</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>height</td>
    <td>num</td>
    <td>The height of the tree, in metres to one decimal place
    (nearest 10 cm)</td>
    <td>m</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>bole_height</td>
    <td>num</td>
    <td>The height from the ground to the base of the lowest branch
    also called 'clear length'</td>
    <td>m</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>crown_x</td>
    <td>num</td>
    <td>If two crown diameters are taken perpendicular to one
    another, the first of these measurements. If one crown diameter
    was taken, that crown diameter, in metres to one decimal place
    (nearest 10 cm).</td>
    <td>m</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>crown_y</td>
    <td>num</td>
    <td>If two crown diameters are taken perpendicular to one
    another, the second of these measurements. If one crown
    diameter was taken, this remains blank, in metres to one
    decimal place (nearest 10 cm).</td>
    <td>m</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>alive</td>
    <td>fct</td>
    <td>Is the stem alive or dead. Possible values: "A" (alive),
    "D" (dead)</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>stem_status</td>
    <td>fct</td>
    <td>What is the growth status of the stem. Possible values are:
    "R" if the stem is topkilled and resprouting, "T" if the stem
    is topkilled with no sign of resprouting, "D" if the stem is
    completely dead (i.e. base appears dead), NA if the stem is
    alive with no abnormal growth status.</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>standing_fallen</td>
    <td>fct</td>
    <td>Is the stem standing, or fallen? Possible values are "S" if
    the stem is standing, "F" if the stem is fallen at a clearly
    unnatural angle.</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>broken_per_remain</td>
    <td>num</td>
    <td>If the stem is broken, approximately how much is remaining?
    As a decimal, e.g. 60% of stem remaining = 0.6, to one decimal
    place (nearest 10%)</td>
    <td>proportion</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>broken_height</td>
    <td>num</td>
    <td>If the stem is broken, at what height is it broken. In
    metres to one decimal place (nearest 10 cm)</td>
    <td>m</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>stem_mode</td>
    <td>fct</td>
    <td>What position is the stem in? Possible values are: "U" if
    uprooted, "P" if snapped, "S" if standing, "V" if vanished, "Q"
    if unknown</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>damage_cause</td>
    <td>fct</td>
    <td>If the stem is damaged, what caused it? Possible values
    are: "N" if neighbouring tree, "E" if elephants, "F" if fire,
    "H" if humans (.e.g. cut, ringbarked, broken or beehive), "M"
    if termites, "W" if wind, "Q" if unknown</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>damage_cause_human</td>
    <td>fct</td>
    <td>If the stem is damaged, and damage_cause = "H". What was
    the specific method of damage by humans. Possible values are:
    "chainsaw" if cut by a chainsaw, "axe" if cut by an axe,
    "machete" if cut by machete, "ringbark" if ringbarked,
    "beehive" if the bark was removed to access a beehive.</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>stem_decay</td>
    <td>num</td>
    <td>What level of decay is the stem? Scale runs from 1 (no
    decay) to 5 (very decayed). Follow the "Decay class" table in
    the SEOSAW protocol. To 0.5 of a decay level (e.g. 1.5, 1,
    3.5)</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>method_diam</td>
    <td>fct</td>
    <td>What method was used to derive the stem diameter
    measurement? Possible values are: "dbh_tape" if a tape measure
    with a diameter conversion scale was used, "tape" if a normal
    tape measure was used and the circumference converted to
    diameter, "caliper_1" if a single caliper measurement was used,
    "caliper_2" if two caliper measurements at 90 degrees with the
    mean taken.</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>method_height</td>
    <td>fct</td>
    <td>What method was used to derive the height measurement?
    Possible values are: "eye" if estimated by eye, "laser" if
    estimated using laser or ultrasonic apparatus with an
    electronic tilt sensor e.g. Nikon Forestry Pro, "clinometer" if
    estimated using a mechanical Clinometer and an untrained field
    researcher, "clinometer_trained" if estimated using a
    Clinometer and a carefully trained field researcher,
    "hyposometer" if estimated using a Haglöf Vertex Hypsometer,
    "direct" if estimated by climbing the tree or adjacent tower
    and measuring the height with tape, stick etc.</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>method_xy_latlon</td>
    <td>fct</td>
    <td>The method which was used to estimate stem location within
    the plot, either grid or GPS coordinates. Possible values:
    "tape", "gps", "dgps"</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>voucher_id</td>
    <td>chr</td>
    <td>If a herbarium voucher has been collected, what is the code
    to identify it? 1, Wedza_01, MHR-04b are all valid. No spaces
    please.</td>
    <td></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>fpc</td>
    <td>num</td>
    <td>Fractional Probability of Inclusion. If plots are nested
    with varying sampling effort within plots for stems of
    different size, the probability of a stem this size occurring
    in the whole plot.</td>
    <td>proportion</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>measurement_id</td>
    <td>chr</td>
    <td>A standardised method of identifying measurements. A
    composite of
    `plot_id`_`tree_id`_`stem_id`_`measurement_date`</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>stemTableGen()</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>crown_area</td>
    <td>num</td>
    <td>Area of the tree crown, measured as an ellipse using either
    one or two crown diameter measurements, if present. In m^2</td>
    <td>m^2</td>
    <td>stemTableGen()</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>agb</td>
    <td>num</td>
    <td>Aboveground biomass of stem, in tonnes of Carbon</td>
    <td>tC</td>
    <td>stemTableGen()</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>ba</td>
    <td>num</td>
    <td>Basal area of stem, in m^2</td>
    <td>m^2</td>
    <td>stemTableGen()</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>stem_vol</td>
    <td>num</td>
    <td>Volume of stem, modelled as a cylinder from height and
    diameter, in m^3</td>
    <td>m^3</td>
    <td>stemTableGen()</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>diam_adj</td>
    <td>num</td>
    <td>Adjusted stem diameter at 1.3 m height accounting for tree
    taper</td>
    <td>cm</td>
    <td>stemTableGen()</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>genus_clean</td>
    <td>chr</td>
    <td>Cleaned genus name after taxize checks</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>stemTableGen()</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>species_clean</td>
    <td>chr</td>
    <td>Cleaned species name after taxize checks</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>stemTableGen()</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>family_clean</td>
    <td>chr</td>
    <td>Matched family name using taxize</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>stemTableGen()</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>cjb_name</td>
    <td>chr</td>
    <td>Full species name with authority matched with the CJB
    African Plants database</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>stemTableGen()</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>cjb_desc</td>
    <td>chr</td>
    <td>Species description matched with the CJB African Plants
    database</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>stemTableGen()</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>cjb_url</td>
    <td>chr</td>
    <td>Full species name with authority matched with the CJB
    African Plants database</td>
    <td></td>
    <td>stemTableGen()</td>
  </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
